				
				ASSIGNMENT on Algorithms
				
1) 	Check the given number is EVEN or ODD.
Ans.:	step 1st	:	Start
		Step 2nd 	:	Take input to a variable.
		Step 3rd 	:	Perform division & see remainder.
		Step 4th 	:	If remainder is equal to 0, number is EVEN.
		Step 5th 	:	If variable is not equal to 0, number is ODD. 
		Step 6th 	:	Stop

2) 	Write a Java Program to find the Factorial of given number.
Ans.:	Step 1st	:	Start
		Step 2nd 	:	Take a number in variable “num” that we want to find factorial. 
		Step 3rd	:	Take another variable “factorial” with value assigned 1.
		Step 4th 	:	Initialize loop control variable with i = 1.
		Step 5th 	:	Check if i is less than or equal to num. if condition is false then go to step 8th.
		Step 6th 	:	Multiply Factorial with i. 
		Step 7th 	:	Increment i, then head towards step 5th.
		Step 8th 	:	Print factorial.
		Step 9th 	:	Stop 

3) 	Find the Factorial of a number using Recursion.
Ans.:	Step 1st		:	Start
		Step 2nd 	:	Take a number to find factorial.
		Step 3rd	:	If number is greater than and equal to 0, call a recursive function.
		Step 4th 	:	If number is lesser than 0, print the message that it is not possible to calculate the factorial. 	
		Step 5th	:	Return the result.
		Step 6th 	:	Print the factorial of the given number. 
		Step 7th	:	Stop

4) 	Swap two numbers without using third variable approach.
Ans.:	step 1st 	:	Start
		Step 2nd 	:	Take two numbers as input in variable A and Variable B .
		Step 3rd	:	A value is equal to addition of B in A.
		Step 4th 	:	B value is equal to Subtraction of B from A.
		Step 5th 	:	Now, A value is equal to subtraction of B from A.
		Step 6th 	:	Display Value of A & B.
		Step 7th 	:	Stop

5) 	How to check the given number is Positive or Negative in Java ? 
Ans.:	step 1st 	:	Start
		Step 2nd	:	Take input number.	
		Step 3rd	:	If the number is greater than 0, it is a positive number.
		Step 4th 	:	If the number is lesser than 0, it is a negative number. 
		Step 5th 	:	Print result 
		Step 6th	:	Stop

6) 	Write a Java Program to find whether given number is Leap year or NOT ?
Ans.:	step 1st 	:	Start
		Step 2nd	:	Take four digit number as a year.
		Step 3rd	:	divide number with four.
		Step 4th	:	If remainder is equal to 0, print it is a Leap year.
		Step 5th 	:	If remainder is not equal to 0, print it is not a Leap year. 
		Step 6th	:	Stop

7) 	Write a Java Program to Print 1 To 10 Without Using Loop.
Ans.:	step 1st	:	Start
		Step 2nd	:	Initialize one variable with 1.
		Step 3rd	:	Call recursive function passing initialized variable.
		Step 4th 	:	Stop

8) 	Write a Java Program to print the digits of a Given Number.
Ans.:	step 1st	:	Start
		Step 2nd	:	Take number input
		Step 3rd	:	Divide it with 10 and print the remainder.
		Step 4th 	:	Divide the number with 10.
		Step 5th	:	Goto step 3rd & continue till Queotient get 1 or 0.
		Step  6th 	:	Stop
		
9) 	Write a Java Program to print all the Factors of the Given number.
Ans.:	step 1st 	:	Start
		Step 2nd	:	Take a number as input.
		Step 3rd 	:	Perform loop diving input number from 1 to given number, if divides completely or not.
		Step 4th 	:	if division of number gives remainder equal to 0, print that output.
		Step 5th 	:	Stop

10) Write a Java Program to find sum of the digits of a given number.
Ans.:	Step 1st 	:	Start
		Step 2nd	:	Take one number as input.
		Step 3rd	:	Calculate the remainder of the number diving it by 10.
		Step 4th 	:	Do addition of remainder of the number.
		Step 4th 	:	Divide given number by 10.
		Step 5th	:	Repeat step 3rd till the number is greater than 0.
		Step 6th 	:	Stop
		
11) Write a Java Program to find the smallest of 3 numbers (a,b,c).
Ans.:	Step 1st		:	Start
		Step 2nd 	:	Take 3 numbers
		Step 3rd	:	Check if A is less than B.
		Step 4th 	:	if it is true then check C is less than A, if not, then check if B is less than C.
		Step 5th 	:	if condition is true then B is the smallest number, else C is smallest.
		Step 6th 	:	Stop

12) How to add two numbers without using the arithmetic operators in Java ?
Ans.:	Step 1st 	:	Start
		Step 2nd 	:	Take 2 numbers to add.
		Step 3rd	:	Create one function and define it using post/pre increment in for loop till value of loop is equal to second taken value to add.
		Step 4th	:	Print final value of addition.
		Step 5th 	:	Stop
